---
title: "Gasket & bolting data"
id: "h9128"
---

# Gasket & bolting data
## Data Input
Description | Enter the gasket & bolting description.  
---|---  
Calculation method | This selection is used for the **Gasket material** menu below only, _Standard_ to select gaskets from the Standard list, _EN 1591_ to select gaskets from the EN 1591 list, or _EN 13445:Annex G_ to select gaskets from the EN 13445:Annex G list.  
Gasket type | Select the generic gasket type - see [Gasket types](<h9985.htm#0300>).NOTE: Only those gasket types which are valid for the selected facing type will appear on the gasket selection menu.  
Gasket material |  Select the gasket material - see [Gasket database](<h9985.htm#0500>). If the required material is not available then select the _User defined_ option.   
Guide ring | Select _Fitted_ if the gasket is fitted with an outer guide ring, or _Not fitted_ if a guide ring is not fitted.  
Seating width | Select Column I or Column II for evaluation of the basic gasket seating width to TABLE 2-5.1.  
Description | Enter the user defined gasket description.  
Gasket factor m | For _User defined_ gaskets the gasket factor _m_.  
Gasket seating stress y | For _User defined_ gaskets the gasket seating stress _y_.  
Contact width N\(min\) | For _User defined_ gaskets the minimum gasket width _N_ min.  
Internally confined gasket | Check this box to specify an internally confined gasket.  
Pass partition | Check this box to specify a gasket with pass partition bars.  
Pass partition length | The total length of gasket pass partition plate\(s\), if any - see [Gaskets with Pass partition ribs.](<h9985.htm#1000>).  
Height of flat |  For a ring type gasket the height of the vertical flat portion of the gasket. For a circular ring or perfect octagon enter zero. See also EN 13445-3 Annex G Figure G.3-3 \(d\) & \(e\)   
Bolt data | Heading to denote the following data applies to the bolts.  
Bolt Material | Bolt material selection from the [Material Database](<h9991.htm>).  
Bolt tightening method | Select from the [Bolt tightening method](<h9997.htm#0400>) menu.  
Pre-load / bolt | The bolt pre-load \(per bolt\) for controlled bolt tensioning methods.  
Bolt type | Select _ISO Metric series_ or _Inch series_ \- see [Bolting Data](<h9984.htm>).  
Diameter | Select the required bolt size - see [Bolting Data](<h9984.htm>).  
Diameter | For _User defined_ bolting the nominal bolt diameter.  
Bolt area | Actual cross sectional area of one bolt at the section of least diameter under load, for _User defined_ bolting.  
Minimum bolt pitch | Minimum recommended bolt pitch, for _User defined_ bolting.  
Minimum edge clearance | For _User defined_ bolting the minimum recommended clearance from centre-line of bolts to edge of the flange, cover or tubesheet.  
Minimum hub clearance | For _User defined_ bolting the minimum recommended clearance from centre-line of bolts to flange hub.  
Thread pitch | For _User defined_ bolting the thread pitch of bolts used.  
## Additional Information
None.
## Warning Messages
NOTE: The _Bolt hole diameter_ is input on either one of the adjacent components.
Bolt diameter | The _Bolt diameter_ versus the _Bolt hole diameter_ gives an invalid clearence.  
---|---  
## Error Messages
See also [General component error messages](<h9100.htm#1000>).
Conflicting diameters | The _Gasket OD_ is less than or equal to the _Gasket ID_ , or if a Guide Ring has been specified as fitted the the _Guide ring OD_ is less than or equal to the _Gasket OD_.  
---|---  
Conflicting facings | One or more of the facing dimensions doesn't match the other or is invalid, alternatively the facing configurations of the adjacent components are incompatible - see [Facing & Gasket Data](<h9985.htm>).  
Conflicting gasket data | The selected _Gasket type_ is incompatible with the _Gasket material_ selected - see [Gasket database](<h9985.htm#0500>).  
Gasket dimensions | The Gasket diameter and/or thickness is invalid.  
Length | An invalid _Pass partition length_ has been specified.  
Quantity | The bolt quantity input on the adjacent component must be at least 3.  
Width | The _Ring width_ is invalid.  
* * *
©Finglow Research Ltd - 2024
