---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
id: "h9994"
---

# Frequently Asked Questions
## Frequently Asked Questions - General
Q: Are design pressures measured as _gauge_ pressure or _absolute_ pressure?
A: Generally, for a simple pressure vessel, _guage_ pressure is used. However, the correct definition of design pressure, whether, internal or external, is the _maximum differential pressure_ that the component can see. e.g. if component has full vacuum one side and a 2barG the other side, then the design pressure is 3bar. This is calculated by 2 barG minus \(-1\) barG or 3 barA minus 0 barA. The same is true if the units are psi. See also [Input pressures](<h9997.htm#0130>)
Q: I get the message "Missing arguments" what should I do?
A: The Finglow 2D and 3D shortcuts both require the location of the licence folder as an argument.
Q: I get the message "Audit failure" what should I do?
A: Unauthorised access to Finglow system files has occurred. Check for viruses and reinstall software.
Q: I get the message "Menu failure" what should I do?
A: Finglow needs reinstalling.
Q: I get the message "Text failure" what should I do?
A: Finglow needs reinstalling.
Q: I get the message "System text" what should I do?
A: Finglow needs reinstalling.
Q: I get the message "Corrupt password file" what should I do?
A: Contact Finglow.
Q: I get the message "Data directory: Access failure" what should I do?
A: Access to the user's data folder is denied, check the READ/WRITE permissions.
Q: I get the message "Licence: Access failure" what should I do?
A: Contact CEI/Finglow.
Q: I get the message "Environment: Access failure" what should I do?
A: The user does not have read access to the ..\env folder.
Q: I get the message "Environment: Write failure" what should I do?
A: The user does not have write access to the ..\env folder.
Q: I get the message "Insufficient memory" what should I do?
A: There is insufficient memory to run the application. Close down some of other applications and try again.
Q: I get the message "Security data" what should I do?
A: Contact Finglow.
Q: How do I reproduce my report in electronic format for e-mailing?
A: Select Format Design Report → Send File to Printer. On the Print Setup screen, select the appropriate printer driver: for example to create a PDF file select Acrobat PDFWriter. Click OK to continue. The output will be printed directly to an Acrobat® file.
Q: I get the message "Printer error: <filename>" what should I do?
A: If the pathname is fl021516.tmp, the print margins and/or font sizes are probably too large for the page. Select Format Design Report → Print Setup to reduce the size.
Q: The Help talks about _Windows_ and _Dialogs_ , what's the difference?
A: None, it's a pop-up window that gets input from the user, or displays data for the user.
Q: The software is showing in the taskbar, but does not appear on the screen.
A1: Select the application in the taskbar, press \[Alt+Spacebar\] and select __M_ ove_. Then press any arrow key and the missing application's titlebar will appear at one of the margins of the screen.
A2: Alternatively, close the application down. Go to the folder C:\TEMP and delete the files _fin2d.ini_ and/or _fin3d.ini_. The application will resize on start up.
## Frequently Asked Questions - Engineering
Q: Why is the calculation of an ellipsoidal head different when Internal or External dimensions are specified? 
A: For 2:1 ellipsoidal heads the height of the head \(measured from the tan-line\) is calculated as a quarter of the diameter of the head skirt. However this ratio can be based on either the outside surface or the inside surface depending on the manufacturing process, i.e pressed or spun. In order to take account of this, the software permits either internal or external dimensions to be specified. 
  1. If the head was spun, then the 2:1 ratio is normally based on the inside dimensions. If so, the option _Diameter: OD-ID-NB_ should be set to Internal and the internal head height is determined from the inside diameter as Di/4.  
  2. If the head was pressed, then the 2:1 ratio is normally based on the outside dimensions. If so, the option _Diameter: OD-ID-NB_ should be set to External and the external head height is determined from the outside diameter as \(Do/4\)-th \(all in the uncorroded condition\). 
By changing the _Diameter: OD-ID-NB_ option from Internal to External the user is in fact specifying a different shape of formed head. The head shape is different and therefore the required thickness will be different. 
In addition for ASME VIII-1 calculations, when based on external dimensions the value of Factor K exceeds 1.0 and the footnote in Appendix 1.4 will be invoked to reduce the stress used in the formula for the required thickness.
Q: Nozzles & Openings to PD 5500: the available nozzle thickness _e_ ab is less than the required thickness _e_ rb, but Finglow output states that it is an acceptable calculation?
A: In cases where the reinforcement limit _L_ b extends beyond the projection of the nozzle, the distribution of the reinforcement will be modified to concentrate the material close to the opening in accordance with 3.5.4.3.4\(a\) - see Figures 3.5-29 and 3.5-30. The areas of fillet welds will be included where relevant.
Q: Local Loads on Cylinders to PD 5500: do the limitations on pad size in 3.5.4 also apply Annex G?
A: The limitations on pad sizes detailed in paragraph 3.5.4.5.1 do not apply when the pad is purely required to limit the local stresses. However, the limitations are checked in the local loads modules since the effects of pressure are also considered and the local load modules are unaware of the reinforcement requirements. Hence if the pad is not required for reinforcement, the message may be ignored.
Q: Cyclic Loading: how do I calculate fatigue loadings on a nozzle?
A: Using the Local Load module calculate the maximum and minimum stresses that result from the cycling load. If the pressure does not cycle this can be ignored.
See also [Warnings Messages](<h9997.htm#0501>), and [Fatal Messages](<h9997.htm#0502>)
* * *
©Finglow Research Ltd - 2024
