---
title: "EN 13445 - Local Loads on Cylinders"
id: "h0205"
---

# EN 13445 - Local Loads on Cylinders
* * *
# Program Capabilities
This program performs the calculations for the assessment of stresses due to local loading on cylindrical shells in accordance with EN 13445-3 Section 16.5 for nozzles and Section 16.6 for solid attachments.
The deflections and rotations are evaluated in accordance with PD 5500 Annex G.2.2.4 and G.2.3.5 or PD 5500 Enquiry Case 137 for hollow attachments.
Nozzles may be specified by nominal bore, inside diameter or outside diameter. Thinning allowance may be specified for both the shell and the nozzles.
NOTE: The calculation method does not consider the effects of shear or torsional loads at the vessel surface.
* * *
# Operation
## Joint efficiency
For the purposes of assessing the local stresses due to loadings on nozzles and other attachments no account is taken of weld joint efficiency.
## Attachment Types
The following types of attachment are covered by the program: 
  * _Opening or nozzle_ \- The following types of nozzles and openings may be selected - see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>): 
_Plain nozzle_
_Nozzle + single pad_
_Nozzle + double pad_
_Self reinforced_
_Butt welded insert_
_Pad_
## Loadings and Sign Convention
The following loadings may be specified for any type of attachment: see [Loadings and Sign Convention Shells](<h9981.htm#0010>). 
  * Load X \(long shear\) - This corresponds to the load _F_ L in Figure 16.5-1.  
  * Load Y \(circ shear\) - This corresponds to the load _F_ c in Figure 16.5-1.  
  * Load Z \(radial\) - This corresponds to the load _F_ R in Figure 16.5-1. The sign convention for the load _W_ in G.2.2 is opposite to that used for the radial load _F_ R \- hence _W_ = -_F_ R.  
  * Moment X \(circ\) - This corresponds to the moment _M_ c in Figure 16.5-1.  
  * Moment Y \(long\) - This corresponds to the moment _M_ L in Figure 16.5-1.  
  * Moment Z \(torsion\) - This corresponds to the moment _M_ T in Figure 16.5-1.
## Rotation of Axes
The program includes a facility for converting the loading data from any arbitrary set of axes to those defined in [Loadings and Sign Convention Shells](<h9981.htm#0010>). This type of rotation is typically required for offset radial nozzles.
This is achieved by rotation about each axis as required. The operation of this facility is explained in [Rotation of Axes Example](<h9981.htm#0030>).
## Deflection and Rotations
The calculation of deflection and rotation is not currently covered in EN 13445-3. The methods in PD 5500 Annex G are therefore used.
The deflections and rotations are evaluated in accordance with PD 5500 G.2.2.4 and G.2.3.5 or for hollow attachments per Enquiry Case 137, paragraph 3.
The deflection _D_ z due to the radial load _W_ is calculated in accordance with G.2.2.4 using the factor d _Er_ / _W_ from Figures G.2.2-18\(a\), G.2.2-18\(b\) or G.2.2-19.
The rotations due to the moments _M_ c and _M_ L are calculated in accordance with G.2.3.5 using the deflection d1 produced by the equivalent radial load _W_.
For a nozzle or attachment with a reinforcing pad or insert plate, the deflections and rotations are calculated at the edge of the reinforcing pad or insert plate. For nozzles without pads the rotation due to a circumferential moment is reduced by 25% as recommended in G.2.7 paragraph 4.
## Pipe and Shell Flexibility
When considering the loadings on nozzles due to attached piping it is possible for the program to calculate a reduced radial load and reduced moments using a linear interpolation of the shell and pipe spring characteristics. To use this facility data must be entered for the free end rotations _R_ x and _R_ y and the free end deflection _D_ z.
For details of this facility please refer to [Pipe and Shell Flexibility](<h9997.htm#0900>).
The signs of the free end deflection and rotations must be the same as those of the corresponding load and moments.
## General Limitations
The various limitations specified in PD 5500 Annex G are checked by the program. For further details please refer to [PD 5500 - Local Loads on Cylinders](<h0005.htm>).
NOTE: This program does not repeat all the checks specified in Clause 9. Users are assumed to have used the appropriate Nozzles Reinforcement module in conjunction with this module.
* * *
# Explanation of Data
## Calculation Input
Please note that the following is a complete list of input data required for all types of calculations for local loads on cylinders. The data is listed generally in the sequence in which it appears on the screen and in the printed output, but there may be some variations to the order depending on the options currently selected. The user will be required to enter only that data which is necessary for the particular type of calculation currently selected.
See [Data Input](<h9950.htm#0100>) for a full description of how to enter and edit data.
**DESIGN DATA**
Units | Select units - _N mm degrees C_ or _lbf inch degrees F_ \- see [Units](<h9997.htm#0100>).  
---|---  
Testing group | Select vessel test group type - See [Testing Groups](<h0298.htm#0500>).  
Construction class | Select vessel Fabrication tolerance quality class - See [Construction class](<h0298.htm#1000>).  
Abridged output | Select _Yes_ to display and print stress summary output only.  
Pressure input | Select _Design pressure_ or _Pressure + static head_ \- see [Internal Pressure](<h9997.htm#0300>).  
Pressure | For _Pressure + static head_ option the pressure at the top of vessel or section under consideration.  
Liquid height | For _Pressure + static head_ option the height of liquid to be used for calculating the static head.  
Liquid SG | For _Pressure + static head_ option the specific gravity of liquid contents, assuming water to be 1.0.  
Design pressure | Design internal pressure acting on the shell or head, including the effects of liquid static head and/or pressure drops as applicable.  
Design temp | Shell design temperature.  
Corrosion: int | Internal corrosion allowance to be deducted from the as built shell and nozzle thicknesses.  
Corrosion: ext | External corrosion allowance to be deducted from the as built shell and nozzle thicknesses.  
Conical shell | Select _Yes_ if the main body is conical shell. The cone will be converted into an equivalent cylindrical shell. Note this is good engineering practise not covered by the design Code.  
**SHELL DATA**
Material spec | Shell material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: ATM | The elastic modulus for the shell material at room temperature.  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: DT | The elastic modulus for the shell material at the design temperature.  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of diameter as _Nominal bore_ , _External_ or _Internal_. For standard pipe sizes to ANSI B36.10 or BS 1600 select _Nominal bore_. For other diameters and/or thicknesses select _External_ or _Internal_ \- see [\[5\]](<h9998.htm#0005>) and [\[11\]](<h9998.htm#0011>).  
Nominal bore | Select the required nominal bore - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Schedule | Select the required pipe schedule - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Outside diameter | Outside diameter of the cylindrical shell.  
Inside diameter | Inside diameter of the cylindrical shell.  
New thickness | New or as built thickness of the shell.  
Tolerance | Select option for input of thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for negative tolerance on material to be deducted from the new thickness.  
End location 1 | Location of one end of the cylindrical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
End location 2 | Location of the other end of the cylindrical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
**CONE DATA**
Material spec | Shell material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: ATM | The elastic modulus for the cone material at room temperature.  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: DT | The elastic modulus for the cone material at the design temperature.  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of cone diameter as _External_ or _Internal_.  
Small end OD | Outside diameter at the small end of a cone.  
Small end ID | Inside diameter at the small end of a cone.  
Small end knuckle rad | Knuckle radius at the small end of a cone. Enter zero for a cone without a small end knuckle. NOTE: This radius is measured to the outside surface of the cone.  
Small end local thk | Select _Yes_ to input an increased thickness local to the small end of the cone.  
Small end new cone thk | If _Small end local thk_ has been set to _Yes_ , this is the new or as built thickness of the cone local to the small end.  
Cone new thk | New or as built thickness of a cone - see [Conical Shells](<h9987.htm>)  
Large end local thk | Select _Yes_ to input an increased thickness local to the large end of the cone.  
Large end new cone thk | If _Large end local thk_ has been set to _Yes_ , this is the new or as built thickness of the cone local to the large end.  
Large end OD | Outside diameter at the large end of a cone.  
Large end ID | Inside diameter at the large end of a cone.  
Large end knuckle rad | Inside knuckle radius at the large end of a cone. Enter zero for a cone without a large end knuckle.  
Tolerance | Select option for input of thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on material or forming allowance for dished heads. This tolerance will be deducted from the new thickness.  
Small end location | Location of the cone to cylinder junction or the tangent line between the knuckle and the cylindrical shell at the small end of a conical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point - see Conical Shells.  
Large end location | Location of the cone to cylinder junction or the tangent line between the knuckle and the cylindrical shell at the large end of a conical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point - see Conical Shells.  
**LOAD DATA**
Attachment | Select the required attachment type from the following list - see Attachment Types for details of the various types.  
---|---  
At shell surface | Select _Yes_ if the specified loads act at the surface of the shell or _No_ if the loads act at a distance away from the surface \(e.g. at the face of the flange on a nozzle\).  
Standout | Distance from the surface of the shell at which the loads act.  
Constant load | Select _Yes_ for calculation of stresses using the specified loads and moments, or _No_ for calculations taking account of the flexibility of the piping or loading system fixed to the nozzle or attachment.  
Pressure load | For Openings, select _Yes_ to add the calculated radial pressure end load to the value of _Load Z_ input - see [Pressure Load](<h9997.htm#0450>)  
Load X \(long shear\) | Longitudinal shear load, positive or negative, acting in the direction of the X axis - see in Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Load Y \(circ shear\) | Circumferential shear load, positive or negative, acting in the direction of the Y axis - see Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Load Z \(radial\) | Radial load, positive or negative, acting in the direction of the Z axis - see Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Free end defl Dz | The deflection that would occur in the Z direction if the nozzle or attachment were completely free to move in this direction. The sign of the Free end defl _D_ z must be the same as that of the Load Z \(radial\) - see Pipe and Shell Flexibility.  
Moment X \(circ\) | Circumferential bending moment, positive or negative, acting about the X axis using the right hand screw rule - see Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Free end rotn Rx | The rotation that would occur about the X axis if the nozzle or attachment were completely free to rotate about this axis. The sign of the Free end rotn _R_ x must be the same as that of the Moment X \(circ\) - see Pipe and Shell Flexibility.  
Moment Y \(long\) | Longitudinal bending moment, positive or negative, acting about the Y axis using the right hand screw rule - see Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Free end rotn Ry | The rotation that would occur about the Y axis if the nozzle or attachment were completely free to rotate about this axis. The sign of the Free end rotn _R_ y must be the same as that of the Moment Y \(long\) - see Pipe and Shell Flexibility.  
Moment Z \(torsion\) | Torsional moment, positive or negative, acting about the Z axis using the right hand screw rule - see Loadings and Sign Convention.  
Rotate about axis | Heading for rotation of axes of specified applied loads and moments, if required - see Rotation of Axes.  
X axis | The angle about the X axis to rotate the input loads and moments.  
Y axis | The angle about the Y axis to rotate the input loads and moments.  
Z axis | The angle about the Z axis to rotate the input loads and moments.  
**ATTACHMENT DATA**
Attachment ident | Attachment identification number, name or description.  
---|---  
Attachment location | Location of attachment, measured along the axis of the shell from the datum point to the centre of the attachment.  
Outside diameter | Outside diameter of a solid circular attachment.  
Pad | Select the type of reinforcing pad. If no pad is fitted then select _None_.  
Pad material spec | Pad material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Pad OD | Outside diameter of the reinforcing pad, or the diameter to the large end of the taper at the edge of an insert plate.  
Circumferential width | Overall width of the reinforcing pad, or the width to the large end of the taper at the edge of an insert plate, for a rectangular or square attachment, measured in the circumferential or Y direction.  
Longitudinal length | Overall length of the reinforcing pad, or the length to the large end of the taper at the edge of an insert plate, for a rectangular attachment, measured in the longitudinal or X direction.  
Pad thk | Thickness of the reinforcing pad.  
Insert plate thk | Thickness of the insert plate.  
**OPENING OR NOZZLE DATA**
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name.  
---|---  
Type | Select the type of nozzle or opening from the following list - see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>).  
Attachment | Select the type of nozzle to shell attachment as _Set-on_ , _Set-in_ or _Set-through_ \- see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select the attachment weld type as _Full penetration_ , _Partial penetration_ or _Fillet welded_ \- see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>). NOTE: Some combinations of nozzle type, attachment and weld are not permitted by the program - see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>) for details of the valid combinations.  
Nozzle configuration | Select the required nozzle configuration as _Radial_ , _Oblique_ or _Offset from centre_ for nozzles in cylindrical or conical shells, or as _Radial_ or _Parallel_ for nozzles in dished heads- see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Relax reinforcement limits | See [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>).  
Offset from centre | For an offset nozzle or for a nozzle in a dished head, the offset measured from the centre-line of the nozzle or opening to the centre-line of the shell, cone or head - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Oblique angle | For an oblique nozzle in a shell or cone, the angle between the centre-line of the nozzle and a line normal to the surface of the shell or cone - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Orientation | Angular orientation of the nozzle with respect to the datum or zero orientation - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Opening location | Location of the nozzle or opening, measured along the axis of the shell from the datum point to the centre-line of the nozzle.  
Ovality correction factor | Is the correction factor ψ for out of roundness used in the Nozzle longitudinal compressive stress check - see Clause 16.14.8.2. NOTE - Using Class C and factor ψ as 0.75 is a conservative assumption.  
**NOZZLE DATA**
Material spec | Nozzle material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: ATM | The elastic modulus for the nozzle material at room temperature.  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic mod: DT | The elastic modulus for the nozzle material at the design temperature.  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of diameter as _Nominal bore_ , _External_ or _Internal_. For standard pipe sizes to ANSI B36.10 or BS 1600 select _Nominal bore_. For other diameters and/or thicknesses select _External_ or _Internal_ \- see [\[5\]](<h9998.htm#0005>) and [\[11\]](<h9998.htm#0011>).  
Nominal bore | Select the required nominal bore - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Schedule | Select the required pipe schedule - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Nozzle OD | Outside diameter of the nozzle neck. For a [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type this diameter does not include the thickened section adjacent to the shell.  
Nozzle ID | Inside diameter of the nozzle neck.  
Nozzle thk | New or as built thickness of the nozzle neck.  
Pad OD | Outside diameter of a pad type connection or reinforcing pad.  
Diameter at shell | For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the outside diameter of the thickened section adjacent to the shell.  
Tolerance | Select option for input of nozzle wall thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on the nozzle wall thickness, typically 12.5% for pipe material. For _Self reinforced_ and _Butt welded insert_ nozzle types the thinning allowance may only be input in mm or inches, not as a percentage.  
Insert plate thk | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the thickness of the insert plate.  
External projection | The distance that the nozzle projects from the outside surface of the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Internal projection | The distance that the nozzle projects inside the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Upper transition length | For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the distance measured along the centre-line of the nozzle from the reference point to the small end of the taper, where the thickness of the reinforced part of the nozzle reduces to the basic nozzle neck thickness.  
Lower transition length | For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the distance measured along the centre-line of the nozzle from the reference point to point where the thickness of the reinforced part of the nozzle starts to reduce.  
Outside corner radius | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the corner radius between the nozzle and the insert plate at the outside surface.  
Inside corner radius | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle types, the corner radius at the inside surface between the nozzle internal projection and the shell.  
Corner radius | For all __ nozzle types, the corner radius at the inside surface.  
Fillet weld \(noz/shell\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the outside surface of the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/pad\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the external pad - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>)  
Groove weld \(noz/shell\) | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/shell\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the inside surface of the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>), [ Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/pad\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the internal pad - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
**PAD DATA**
Material spec | Pad material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Elastic modulus: DT | see [Design Strengths](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Pad OD | Outside diameter of the reinforcing pad or pad type connection. NOTE: For _Nozzle + double pad_ the external and internal pads are assumed to have the same outside diameter.  
Pad ID | Inside diameter of a pad type connection.  
Pad thk | Thickness of the reinforcing pad or pad type connection. NOTE: For _Nozzle + double pad_ the external and internal pads are assumed to be the same thickness.  
External projection | The distance that the pad type connection projects from the outside surface of the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Corner radius | For _Set-in_ or _Set-through_ [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>) type connection, the corner radius at the inside surface.  
Pad ID: int | For _Set-on_ or _Set-in_ nozzles with double pad, the inside diameter of the internal pad.  
Hole dia | For _Set-on_ pad type connections, the diameter of the opening in the vessel.  
Fillet weld \(pad/shell\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the external pad and the outside surface of the vessel - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>), [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>) and [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>)  
Groove weld \(pad/shell\) | For [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>) connections, the thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the pad and the vessel.  
Fillet weld \(pad/shell\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the pad and the inside surface of the vessel - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>) and [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>).  
Groove weld \(noz/pad\) | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the external pad - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
Groove weld \(noz/pad\): int | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the internal pad - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
## Calculation Output
Please note that the following is a complete list of output data for all types of calculations for local loads on cylinders. The data is listed generally in the sequence in which it appears on the screen and in the printed output, but there may be some variations to the order depending on the options currently selected. Only that data which is relevant to the particular type of calculation currently selected will be displayed or printed. Units are as indicated on the output. One consistent set of units will be used \(SI or US\).
**OUTPUT DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle or attachment.
Abridged output | Set to _Yes_ if the output has been abridged.  
---|---  
Design pressure | Design internal pressure acting on the shell, including the effects of liquid static head.  
Nozzle OD | Uncorroded outside diameter of the nozzle neck when Nominal bore has been input.  
Nozzle thk | New or as built thickness of the nozzle neck when Schedule has been input.  
Diameter Deq | Corroded inside diameter of the shell.  
Thickness ea | Assesment thickness of the shell after deduction of thinning and corrosion allowances.  
Diameter Di | Corroded inside diameter of the shell.  
Ratio e/D | Ratio of shell thickness to the shell mean diameter.  
Diameter di | Corroded inside diameter of the nozzle neck.  
Min length | The minimum length over which the thickness of the nozzle must be maintained - G.2.8.2.1\(c\).  
Ratio fb/fs | Ratio of the design strength of the nozzle to the design strength of the shell.  
Ratio fp/fs | Ratio of the design strength of the pad to the design strength of the shell.  
Allowable comp stress | Allowable longitudinal compressive stress for the Nozzle as per 16.14.8.  
Nozzle strength ratio | The ratio of membrane stress in the nozzle neck due to pressure and external loads versus the allowable design stress.  
**DEFLECTION DATA**
This data is presented in four columns headed FR, Mc and ML at either side of the attachment \(locations A and B\), which refer to the radial load, the circumferential moment and the longitudinal moment respectively.
Half length C1 | Half the length of the side of an equivalent square loading area as defined in G.2.2.4 equations \(G.2.2-2\) and \(G.2.2-3\).  
---|---  
Ratio C1/r | Ratio of the half length _C_ 1 to the mean shell radius _r_.  
Ratio Le/r | Ratio of the equivalent length _L_ e to the mean shell radius _r_.  
Delta.E.r/W | Deflection factor from Figure G.2.2-18\(a\), G.2.2-18\(b\) or G.2.2-19.  
Parameter 1 | For a radial load _W_ the parameter \(_δEr /W_\), for a longitudinal moment _M L_ the parameter \(_i bEr3/ML_\) and for a circumferential moment _M C_ the parameter \(_i bEr3/MC_\).  
Parameter 2 | For a radial load _W_ the parameter _C d_, for a longitudinal moment _M L_ the parameter _C rL_ and for a circumferential moment _M C_ the parameter _C rC_.  
Deflection | Deflection due to the circumferential or longitudinal moment.  
Deflection/Rotation | The deflection due to the load or the rotation due to the moment at the edge of the loaded area.  
Displaced | Heading to denote that the following output .  
Free end displacement | Deflection due to the circumferential or longitudinal moment.  
Deflection | Deflection due to the circumferential or longitudinal moment.  
Deflection/Rotation | The deflection due to the load or the rotation due to the moment at the edge of the loaded area.  
**LOAD / MOMENT DATA**
Input | Heading to denote that the following loads and moments are from the input data.  
---|---  
Rotated | Heading to denote that the following loads and moments have been calculated when rotations have been specified.  | At shell surface | Heading to denote that the following loads and moments have been calculated when a standout has been specified.  | Displaced | Heading to denote that the following loads and moments have been calculated taking account of any displacement of the loading system, when non constant loads have been specified.  
Load / Moment | Radial load, Circumferential and Longitudinal moments.  
Torsion / Shear | Torsional moment and shear loads.  
**REINFORCEMENT DATA**
Pressure area | The total pressure loaded area as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
---|---  
Shell area | Shell cross-sectional material area _A fs_ as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Nozzle area | Nozzle cross-sectional material area _A fb_ as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Pad area | Pad cross-sectional material area _A fp_ to as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Weld area | Weld cross-sectional material area _A fw_ to as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
**DIMENSION DATA**
Thickness ea | Assesment thickness of the shell after deduction of thinning and corrosion allowances.  
---|---  
Pad width | Width _L_ of the reinforcing pad.  
Max pad width | Maximum width of the reinforcing pad considered to contribute to the calculation.  
Thickness eeq | Equivalent shell thickness _e_ eq \- see equation \(16.5-20\).  
Thickness eb | Assesment thickness of the nozzle after deduction of thinning and corrosion allowances.  
**DIMENSION DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle and/or the pad edge.
Diameter D | Effective mean diameter of the shell.  
---|---  
Diameter d | The mean nozzle diameter _d_  
Thickness ec | Combined analysis thickness _e_ c of the shell and reinforcing plate - see Section 16.5.4.  
**FACTOR DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle and/or the pad edge.
Lambda c | Factor _λ_ c \- see equation \(16.5-1\).  
---|---  
Factor C1 | Factor _C_ 1 from Equation \(16.5-4\).  
Factor C2 | Factor _C_ 2 from Equation \(16.5-6\).  
Factor C3 | Factor _C_ 3 from Equation \(16.5-8\).  
Factor C4 | Factor _C_ 4 equal to 1.1 or 1.0 - see Section 16.5.6.4.  
**PRESSURE DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle and/or the pad edge.
Pressure Pmax | Maximum permissible pressure - see equation \(15.5-2\).  
---|---  
**SHEAR DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle and/or the pad edge.
Tau FX | Shear stress _τ_ X due to force _F_ X \- see equation \(16.5-8a\).  
---|---  
Tau FY | Shear stress _τ_ Y due to force _F_ Y \- see equation \(16.5-8b\).  
Tau MT | Shear stress _τ_ Z due to moment _M_ Z \- see equation \(16.5-8c\).  
**LOAD DATA**
This data is for the edge of the nozzle and/or the pad edge.
Load Fz max | The maximum allowable axial nozzle force _F_ Z,max \- see equation \(16.5-3\).  
---|---  
Moment Mx max | The maximum allowable circumferential moment _M_ X,max applied to the nozzle - see equation \(16.5-5\).  
Moment My max | The maximum allowable longitudinal moment _M_ Y,max applied to the nozzle - see equation \(16.5-7\).  
**FACTOR DATA**
Phi P | Load ratio _Φ_ P due to pressure - see equation \(16.5-9\).  
---|---  
Phi Z | Load ratio _Φ_ Z due to axial force - see equation \(16.5-10\).  
Phi B | Load ratio _Φ_ B due to the applied moments _M_ X and _M_ Y \- see equation \(16.5-11\).  
Phi T | Load ratio _Φ_ T due to shear - see equation \(16.5-11a\).  
Interaction | Interaction of all the loads - see equation \(16.5-15\).  
**LOAD DATA**
Delta Fx | Load range _ΔF x_ \- see equation \(16.5-16a\).  
---|---  
Delta Fy | Load range _ΔF y_ \- see equation \(16.5-16b\).  
Delta Fz | Load range _ΔF z_ \- see equation \(16.5-17\).  
Delta Mx | Load range _ΔM x_ \- see equation \(16.5-18\).  
Delta My | Load range _ΔM y_ \- see equation \(16.5-19\).  
Delta Mz | Load range _ΔM z_ \- see equation \(16.5-19a\).  
**STRESS DATA**
Delta P | Pressure range _ΔP_ \- see equation \(16.5-16\).  
---|---  
Sigma P | Stress _Δσ P_ due to pressure range _ΔF z_ \- see equation \(16.5-21\).  
Sigma Fz | Stress _Δσ Fz_ due to load range _ΔF z_ \- see equation \(16.5-22\).  
Sigma Mx | Stress _Δσ Mx_ due to load range _ΔM x_ \- see equation \(16.5-23\).  
Sigma My | Stress _Δσ My_ due to load range _ΔM y_ \- see equation \(16.5-24\).  
Tau FX | Shear stress _Δτ_ X due to load range _ΔF_ X \- see equation \(16.5-24a\).  
Tau FY | Shear stress _Δτ_ Y due to load range _ΔF_ Y \- see equation \(16.5-24b\).  
Tau MT | Shear stress _Δτ_ Z due to load range _ΔM_ Z \- see equation \(16.5-24c\).  
Combined | Combination of the stress ranges - see equation \(16.5-25\).  
Allowable | Allowable combination stress - see section 16.5.7.4.  
Ratio | The maximum ratio of any calculated stress to the corresponding allowable stress, expressed as a percentage.  
**LONGITUDINAL DATA**
This data is presented in two columns: for stresses at the edge of the attachment and, when relevant, at the edge of the reinforcing pad or insert plate.
Dimension b | The width of the loaded area - see Figure 16.6-2.  
---|---  
Lambda | Factor _λ_ from equation \(16.6-13\).  
Upsilon 1 | Ratio _υ_ 1 from equation \(16.6-14\).  
Upsilon 2 | Ratio _υ_ 2 from equation \(16.6-8\).  
Factor K1 | Factor _K_ 1 from equation \(16.6-7\).  
Factor K2 | Factor _K_ 2 from clause 16.6.6 for design condition only.  
Factor K13 | Factor _K_ 13 from equation \(16.6-15\).  
Factor K14 | Factor _K_ 14 from equation \(16.6-16\).  
Factor K15 | Factor _K_ 15 from equation \(16.7-2\).  
Sigma m | Longitudinal membrane stress _σ_ m from equation \(16.6-9\).  
Sigma b\(a\) | Stress _σ_ b,all from equation \(16.6-6\).  
Load Fz | Input radial force.  
Load Fz max | Maximum permitted radial force _F_ L,max from equation \(16.6-21\).  
Moment M | Input longitudinal moment.  
Moment M max | Maximum permitted longitudinal moment _M_ L,max from equation \(16.6-22\).  
Load ratio | From equation \(16.6-23\), expressed as a percentage.  
**CIRCUMFERENTIAL DATA**
This data is presented in two columns: for stresses at the edge of the attachment and, when relevant, at the edge of the reinforcing pad or insert plate.
Dimension b | The width of the loaded area - see Figure 16.6-3.  
---|---  
Lambda | Factor _λ_ from equation \(16.6-17\).  
Upsilon 1 | Ratio _υ_ 1 from equation \(16.6-18\).  
Upsilon 2 | Ratio _υ_ 2 from equation \(16.6-8\).  
Factor K1 | Factor _K_ 1 from equation \(16.6-7\).  
Factor K2 | Factor _K_ 2 from clause 16.6.6 for design conditions.  
Factor K13 | Factor _K_ 13 from equation \(16.6-19\).  
Factor K14 | Factor _K_ 14 from equation \(16.6-20\).  
Factor K15 | Factor _K_ 15 from equation \(16.7-2\).  
Sigma m | Circumferential membrane stress _σ_ m from equation \(16.6-11\).  
Sigma b\(a\) | Stress _σ_ b,all from equation \(16.6-6\).  
Load Fz | Input radial force.  
Load Fz max | Maximum permitted radial force _F_ L,max from equation \(16.6-21\).  
Moment M | Input circumferential moment.  
Moment M max | Maximum permitted circumferential moment _M_ L,max from equation \(16.6-22\).  
Load ratio | From equation \(16.6-23\), expressed as a percentage.  
**MATERIAL DATA**
The material properties of the shell, nozzle and pad materials. Either from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) or reproduced from the user input.
See [Material Properties](<h9980.htm>) for a complete list of properties used.
Shell | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the shell.  
---|---  
Nozzle | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the nozzle.  
Pad | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the pad.  
* * *
# System Messages
## Warning and Advisory Messages
Messages printed below in _italics_ are not considered to be critical - see [Warnings Messages](<h9997.htm#0501>).
_Acceptable calculation_ | The calculations have been performed successfully and the calculated stresses are less than the corresponding allowable stresses.  
---|---  
Angle from normal | The angle between the axis of the nozzle and a line normal to the surface of the shell or cone, exceeds 50°. The program will show the effective increase in stress ratio caused by the nozzle being inclined from the normal - see [\[25\]](<h9998.htm#0025>).  
_Caution Cx/r > 0.25_ | The value of _C_ x / _r_ for the nozzle, attachment, reinforcing pad or insert plate is greater then 0.25. The data should be used with caution - see G.2.2.  
Code limitations exceeded | One or more of the following limitations has been exceeded. The appropriate values will be displayed in red. 
* _d /D_ ≤ 0.5 
* 0.001 ≤ _e /D_ ≤ 0.1 
* _λ_ c ≤ 10.0. If this limit is exceeded the effect of a twisting moment should be considered. 
* Nozzle thickness maintained over a distance _√\(d.e_ b\). 
* 0.001 ≤ _e a/Deq_ ≤ 0.05 - see 16.7.3\(a\) 
* _e 2_ ≥ ea \- see 16.7.3\(b\). 
* _b 3_ ≤ 1.5 b1 \- see 16.7.3\(b\).   
_Deflection out of range_ | One or more of the parameters used PD 5500 Figures G.2.2-18 and G.2.2-19 is out of range. For nozzles one or more of the parameters used in Enquiry Case 137 Figures 3 or 4 is out of range.  
_Effective length: nozzle_ | For self reinforcing types the _Effective length: nozzle_ based on Code rules include nozzle thickness that is unable to contribute to the reinforcement. A lower limit generally per ASME VIII Div.1 FIG. UG-40 \(e-1\) has been used.  
_Effective length: shell_ | For butt welded types the pad thickness is not maintained over the permissible _Effective length: shell_. The _Effective length: shell_ is reduced to the available width as input.  
EN 13445-5 Table 6.6.1-1 | One or more of the parameters in the table _Testing groups for steel pressure vessels_ is outside the limits.  
Extrapolated graphs/tables | One or more of the parameters used in PD 5500 G.2 are out of range and the graphs have been extrapolated.  
Fig G.2.2-1 | The values of Loaded width / 2 _r_ and γ = _r_ / _t_ are not in the applicable region of Figure G.2.2-1.  
Insufficient reinforcement | The reinforcement is insufficient to satisfy the requirements.  
Lambda | The limitation has been exceeded.  
Load ratio | A load ratio exceeds unity.  
_Location may reduce reinforcement_ | The _Relax reinforcement limits_ option is set to _Yes_ , but the area available for reinforcement in the vessel wall may be limited \- see [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>).  
_Low temperature_ | Further analysis per EN 13445-2 Annex B may be required - see [Limitations](<h9996.htm#0700>).  
_Max nozzle thk_ | The limits in Figure 9.4-14 or 9.4-15 have been exceeded. If the limit in Figure 9.4-15 has been exceeded the maximum permitted thickness will be displayed. The program will discard excess thickness when calculating available reinforcement.   
_Max pad thk_ | The pad thickness exceeds the maximum permitted by the Code. The maximum permitted pad thickness is used in the calculation.  
Min length | The minimum nozzle length requirement has not been met.  
Nozzle strength ratio | The nozzle strength check has failed, the ratio output should be ≤ 100%.  
_Pad OD_ | The pad width is less than the Code recommended minimum for pressure considerations. Further checks may be necessary.  
_Pad width_ | The pad width is less than _L_ max.  
_Radial_ | For local load purposes the nozzle has been treated as _Radial_.  
Ratio d/D | The ratio _d_ / _D_ exceeds the limit specified in Clause 9.4.5.  
Ratio major v minor | The ratio of major to minor axes of the nozzle exceeds 2.0 - see Clause 9.4.4.  
_Reinforcement reduced by location_ | The _Relax reinforcement limits_ option is set to _No_ and the area available for reinforcement in the vessel wall has been limited - see [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>).  
_Strength weld_ | The strength of one or more of the attachment welds is insufficient to satisfy the requirements of ASME VIII Div.1, UG-41\(b\). NOTE: This is advisory only.  
Stress limit exceeded | One or more of the calculated stresses exceeds the corresponding allowable stress.  
Thick shell theory reqd | Thin shell theory rules are not necessarily applicable - see [Shells & Heads](<h0298.htm#0100>).  
## Fatal Warning Messages
See [Fatal Messages](<h9997.htm#0502>).
Attachment | When analysing equal tees the _Attachment type_ must be _Set-on_.  
---|---  
Corroded Failure | A component thickness is less than the corrosion allowance specified.  
Design temp | The minimum design temperature is 20° C - see Clause 5.3.7.  
Dia and/or thk invalid | A diameter and/or thickness is zero or the thickness exceeds the radius.  
Free end defl Dz | The value of the free end deflection _D_ z has the opposite sign to that of the radial load Z.  
Free end rotn Rx | The value of the free end rotation _R_ x has the opposite sign to that of the moment X.  
Free end rotn Ry | The value of the free end rotation _R_ y has the opposite sign to that of the moment Y.  
Input | An item of input data has not been entered.  
Invalid data | A combination of input data is invalid or inconsistent.  
Loads rotated | See Rotation of Axes.  
Material | There has been an error getting data from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>), a more detailed explanation of this error will displayed on the Material Dialog box of the specific material.  
Method failure | Component dimensions are such that the calculation method has failed - see also [Fatal Messages](<h9997.htm#0502>).  
Pad thk | The pad thickness is insufficient for the corrosion allowance specified.  
Thickness | A new or as built thickness is less than the sum of corrosion/tolerance allowances.  
Tolerance | The thickness tolerance is greater than the new or as built thickness.  
* * *
©Finglow Research Ltd - 2024
