---
title: "EN 13445 - Nozzles & Openings"
id: "h0203"
---

# EN 13445 - Nozzles & Openings
# Single or Combined Reinforcement
* * *
# Program Capabilities
This program performs the calculations for the reinforcement requirements of single or combined nozzles or openings, either integrally reinforced or fitted with single-sided or double-sided reinforcing pads, in accordance with EN 13445 Clause 9 in cylindrical/conical shells and formed heads.
Nozzles may be specified in terms of nominal bore, inside diameter or outside diameter. Thinning allowance may be specified for both the shell and the nozzles.
NOTE: No account is taken of the nozzle weld joint factor in Clause 9.5.2.3. It is assumed that longitudinally welded nozzles are butt-welded and have a joint factor of 1.0 or that longitudinally welded nozzles in cylindrical or conical shells are positioned such that the angle θ defined in Clause 9.3.2 is greater than 45°.
* * *
# Operation
## Nozzles and Openings
### Nozzle Types
The basic types of nozzles and openings covered by the program are shown in [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>).
The weld identification letters A to J are used in the definition of the strength paths for the weld strength calculations - see Weld Sizes and Weld Strengths.
### Nozzle Configuration & Location
The types of nozzle configurations covered by the program are shown in [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>) .
NOTE: The limitations specified in Clause 9.7 are not checked by this program. If the nozzle is located close to a discontinuity further analysis may be required - see Clause 9.7.3.
### Nozzle Dimensions
External and internal projections are measured along the centre-line of the nozzle from the nozzle reference point. For oblique or offset nozzles the program checks that the external projection on the shorter side is sufficient to clear the outside surface of the shell or pad.
For nozzles with single-sided or double-sided pads in cylindrical and conical shells, the pad outside diameter is measured in the longitudinal direction parallel to the surface of the vessel. For nozzles with pads in dished heads the pad diameter is measured parallel to the vessel wall at the mid-surface of the pad thickness. The pad width from the outside surface of the nozzle to the outer edge of the pad is assumed to be constant. For Pad type openings the outside diameter of the pad is measured perpendicular to the centre-line of the opening.
## Cylindrical Shells 
The required thickness _e_ is calculated in accordance with Clause 7.4.2.
## Conical Shells
For conical shells, with or without knuckles, the required thickness of the cone is calculated in accordance with Clause 7.6. 
## Ellipsoidal Heads
The required thickness _e_ is calculated in accordance with Clause 7.5.4. The limitations on head proportions and thickness in Clause 7.5.3.1 are also checked.
## Hemispherical Heads
The required thickness _e_ is calculated in accordance with Clause 7.4.3.
## Torispherical Heads
The required thickness _e_ is calculated in accordance with Clause 7.5.3. The internal head height _h i_ is calculated using a formula matching that given in the definition of _h i_ in Clause 7.5.3.2 using internal spherical and knuckle radii _R_ and _r_. The limitations on head proportions and thickness in Clause 7.5.3.1 are also checked.
## Nozzle Reinforcement 
The requirements for reinforcement of single nozzles or openings in cylindrical or conical shells are calculated for two planes through the centre of the opening and normal to the surface of the vessel. The first plane is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vessel and the second plane is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
The requirements for reinforcement of single nozzles or openings in dished heads are calculated for one plane through the centre of the head and the centre of the nozzle.
The nozzle or opening diameter is checked against the limitations specified in Clause 9.4.5.
For oblique or offset nozzles the angle between the axis of the nozzle and a line normal to the surface of the shell is checked against the limits in Clause 9.5.8
For pad type connections, or nozzles fitted with reinforcing pads or doubling plates the limitations given in Clause 9.5.5 are checked and appropriate warning messages produced. If the thickness of the pad exceeds the limit then only the permissible thickness will be used.
The ratio of the design strength for the nozzle _f_ b to the design strength of the shell _f_ s is checked against the limits specified in Clause 9.5.2
The actual thickness of the nozzle wall _e_ ab is taken as the minimum thickness after deduction of thinning and corrosion allowances. When an internal projection is specified the nominal nozzle wall thickness less the thinning allowance and twice the internal corrosion allowance is used when calculating the limit of reinforcement and the thickness available for reinforcement in the internal projection.
The limits of reinforcement are calculated in accordance with Clause 9.5.2 and are measured as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13 - see [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>) and [Area Calculation](<h9993.htm#0400>).
The limits of reinforcement in the nozzle are checked against the external and internal projections. If the limit of reinforcement extends beyond these projections then the area available is limited to that within the physical limits.
## Combined Reinforcement
The Combined reinforcement option may be used to enable the reinforcement requirements of any two nozzles or openings to be calculated. Operation is the same as for the case of a single nozzle with the exception that input data for two nozzles is requested and additional calculations are performed for the combined reinforcement requirements in accordance with Clause 9.6 in the plane connecting the two openings.
The true pitch between the openings is calculated by the program at the mid-thickness of the corroded vessel wall, using the orientations and locations specified for each nozzle.
## Weld Sizes and Weld Strengths 
When the _Size welds_ option is set to _Yes_ the minimum requirements for attachment welds for nozzles and openings are checked generally in accordance with ASME VIII Div.1, UW-16 ref. [\[2\]](<h9998.htm#0002>). The throat thickness of each weld, less the relevant corrosion allowance, is checked and a message produced if the weld size is too small. These checks are for guidance only and the user should refer to EN 13445-4 Clause 6 for recommendations for weld sizes. The required minimum weld leg lengths is rounded up to the nearest 1mm or 1/16" depending on the units selected. A message will be displayed to indicate that the weld sizes input were insufficient. The required weld sizes will be automatically entered into the input data so that when the _Calculate_ option is selected again the calculations will be repeated with the new weld sizes.
Although there is no specific requirement in EN 13445 to check the strength of nozzle attachment welds, the program includes weld strength calculations generally in accordance with ASME VIII Div.1, modified as necessary for different types of nozzle. No output data is produced for these calculations, but if the strength of one or more of the welds is found to be unsatisfactory then a warning message will be produced.
## Test Conditions 
Nozzles may be checked for the shop hydrostatic test condition by setting the option _Check test case_ to _Yes_ \- see [Test Pressures](<h0298.htm#0300>).
If the design is not suitable for the test condition appropriate warning messages will be produced. Detailed output data is not produced for the test condition calculation.
* * *
# Explanation of Data
## Calculation Input
Please note that the following is a complete list of input data required for all types of nozzle reinforcement calculations. The data is listed generally in the sequence in which it appears on the screen and in the printed output, but there may be some variations to the order depending on the options currently selected. The user will be required to enter only that data which is necessary for the particular type of calculation currently selected.
See [Data Input](<h9950.htm#0100>) for a full description of how to enter and edit data.
**DESIGN DATA**
Units | Select units - _N mm degrees C_ or _lbf inch degrees F_ \- see [Units](<h9997.htm#0100>).  
---|---  
Type | Select the required shell or head type from the following list - see Cylindrcal Shells for details of the various shell types.  
Combined | Select _Yes_ for combined reinforcement of two adjacent nozzles or openings, or _No_ for reinforcement of a single nozzle or opening. For combined reinforcement, data must be entered for both nozzles and the program will perform a combined reinforcement calculation as well as separate reinforcement calculations for each nozzle.  
Relax reinforcement limits | See [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>).  
Size welds | Select _Yes_ or _No_. If this option is set to _Yes_ the weld sizes entered will be checked by the program, and increased as required - see Weld Sizes and Weld Strengths.  
Testing group | Select testing group type - See [Testing Groups](<h0298.htm#0500>).  
Pressure input | Select _Design pressure_ or _Pressure + static head_ \- see [Internal Pressure](<h9997.htm#0300>).  
Pressure | For _Pressure + static head_ option the pressure at the top of vessel or section under consideration.  
Liquid height | For _Pressure + static head_ option the height of liquid to be used for calculating the static head.  
Liquid SG | For _Pressure + static head_ option the specific gravity of liquid contents, assuming water to be 1.0.  
Design pressure | Design internal pressure acting on the shell or head, including the effects of liquid static head and/or pressure drops as applicable.  
Design temp | Shell or head design temperature.  
Corrosion: int | Internal corrosion allowance to be deducted from the as built shell or head and nozzle thicknesses.  
Corrosion: ext | External corrosion allowance to be deducted from the as built shell or head and nozzle thicknesses.  
Check test case | Select _Yes_ to perform a test case assessment of the Shop test condition - see [Test Pressures](<h0298.htm#0300>).   
Shop test pressure | The pressure to be used for testing the vessel in the new and uncorroded condition.  
**SHELL DATA**
Material spec | Shell material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of diameter as _Nominal bore_ , _External_ or _Internal_. For standard pipe sizes to ANSI B36.10 or BS 1600 select _Nominal bore_. For other diameters and/or thicknesses select _External_ or _Internal_ \- see [\[5\]](<h9998.htm#0005>) and [\[11\]](<h9998.htm#0011>).  
Nominal bore | Select the required nominal bore - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Schedule | Select the required pipe schedule - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Inside diameter | Inside diameter of a cylindrical shell or formed head.  
Outside diameter | Outside diameter of a cylindrical shell or formed head.  
New thickness | New thickness of the shell - see [Thickness definitions](<h9997.htm#0600>).  
Tolerance | Select option for input of thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on material or forming allowance for dished heads. This tolerance will be deducted from the new thickness.  
End location 1 | Location of one end of a cylindrical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
End location 2 | Location of the other end of a cylindrical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
**CONE DATA**
Material spec | Cone material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of cone diameters as _Internal_ or _External_.  
Small end ID | Inside diameter at the small end of a cone.  
Small end OD | Outside diameter at the small end of a cone.  
Small end knuckle rad | Knuckle radius at the small end of a cone. Enter zero for a cone without a small end knuckle.  
Small end local thk | Select _Yes_ to input an increased thickness local to the small end of the cone.  
Small end new cone thk | If _Small end local thk_ has been set to _Yes_ , this is the new or as built thickness of the cone local to the small end.  
Cone new thk | New or as built thickness of the cone.  
Large end local thk | Select _Yes_ to input an increased thickness local to the large end of the cone.  
Large end new cone thk | If _Large end local thk_ has been set to _Yes_ , this is the new or as built thickness of the cone local to the large end.  
Large end ID | Inside diameter at the large end of a cone.  
Large end OD | Outside diameter at the large end of a cone.  
Large end knuckle rad | Inside knuckle radius at the large end of a cone. Enter zero for a cone without a large end knuckle.  
Tolerance | Select option for input of thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on material or forming allowance for dished heads. This tolerance will be deducted from the new thickness.  
Small end location | Location of the cone to cylinder junction or the tangent line between the knuckle and the cylindrical shell at the small end of a conical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
Large end location | Location of the cone to cylinder junction or the tangent line between the knuckle and the cylindrical shell at the large end of a conical shell, measured along the axis from the datum point.  
**HEAD DATA**
Material spec | Head material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
---|---  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Head weld | Select weld type for the main seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of diameter as _Nominal bore_ , _External_ or _Internal_. For standard pipe sizes to ANSI B36.10 or BS 1600 select _Nominal bore_. For other diameters and/or thicknesses select _External_ or _Internal_ \- see [\[5\]](<h9998.htm#0005>) and [\[11\]](<h9998.htm#0011>).  
Nominal bore | Select the required nominal bore - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Schedule | Select the required pipe schedule - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Inside diameter | Inside diameter of a formed head.  
Outside diameter | Outside diameter of a formed head.  
Inside spherical radius | Inside spherical radius of the crown portion of a torispherical head.  
Inside knuckle radius | Inside knuckle radius of a torispherical head.  
Inside head height | Internal height of an ellipsoidal head measured from the tangent line.  
Outside head height | External height of an ellipsoidal head measured from the tangent line.  
New thickness | New thickness of the head - see [Thickness definitions](<h9997.htm#0600>).  
Tolerance | Select option for input of thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on material or forming allowance for dished heads. This tolerance will be deducted from the new thickness.  
Straight flange | Select _Yes_ if an ellipsoidal or torispherical head includes a straight flange portion.  
Straight flange length | Length of any straight flange.  
**OPENING OR NOZZLE DATA**
For combined nozzles or openings, data is required for both nozzles. All data for the first nozzle and pad \(if fitted\) must be entered before proceeding to the second nozzle.
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name.  
---|---  
Type | Select the type of nozzle or opening to be analysed from the following list - see Nozzle Types.  
Attachment | Select the type of nozzle to shell attachment as _Set-on_ , _Set-in_ or _Set-through_ \- see Nozzle Types.  
Weld | Select the attachment weld type as _Full penetration_ , _Partial penetration_ or _Fillet welded_ \- see Nozzle Types. NOTE: Some combinations of nozzle type, attachment and weld are not permitted by the program - see [Nozzle Types](<h9993.htm#0500>) for details of the valid combinations.  
Nozzle configuration | Select the required nozzle configuration as _Radial_ , _Oblique_ or _Offset from centre_ for nozzles in cylindrical or conical shells, or as _Radial_ or _Parallel_ for nozzles in dished heads- see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Offset from centre | For an offset nozzle or for a nozzle in a dished head, the offset measured from the centre-line of the nozzle or opening to the centre-line of the shell, cone or head - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Oblique angle | For an oblique nozzle in a shell or cone, the angle between the centre-line of the nozzle and a line normal to the surface of the shell or cone - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Orientation | Angular orientation of the nozzle with respect to the datum or zero orientation - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
Opening location | Location of the nozzle or opening, measured along the axis of the shell or cone from the datum point to the point of intersection of the centre-line of the nozzle with the outside surface of the shell or cone - see [Nozzle Configuration & Location](<h9993.htm#0100>).  
**NOZZLE DATA**
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name. NOTE: This text will be the same as that entered on the previous input screen and need not be input again.  
---|---  
Diameter: OD-ID-NB | Select option for input of diameter as _Nominal bore_ , _External_ or _Internal_. For standard pipe sizes to ANSI B36.10 or BS 1600 select _Nominal bore_. For other diameters and/or thicknesses select _External_ or _Internal_ \- see [\[5\]](<h9998.htm#0005>) and [\[11\]](<h9998.htm#0011>).  
Nominal bore | Select the required nominal bore - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Schedule | Select the required pipe schedule - see [Nominal Pipe Sizes & Schedules](<h9986.htm>).  
Nozzle OD | Outside diameter of the nozzle neck. NOTE: For a [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type this diameter does not include the thickened section adjacent to the shell.  
Nozzle ID | Inside diameter of the nozzle neck.  
Nozzle thk | New thickness of the nozzle neck - see [Thickness definitions](<h9997.htm#0600>).  
Pad OD | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the diameter to the large end of the taper at the edge of the insert plate.  
Insert plate thk | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the thickness of the insert plate.  
Diameter at shell | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the diameter to the small end of the taper at the edge of the insert plate. For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the outside diameter of the thickened section adjacent to the shell.  
Tolerance | Select option for input of nozzle wall thickness tolerance as _Absolute_ or _Percentage_.  
Thinning | Thinning allowance to cater for mill tolerance on the nozzle wall thickness, typically 12.5% for pipe material. NOTE: For _Self reinforced_ and _Butt welded insert_ nozzle types the thinning allowance may only be input in mm or inches, not as a percentage.  
Material spec | Nozzle material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required.  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
External projection | The distance that the nozzle projects from the outside surface of the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Internal projection | The distance that the nozzle projects inside the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Upper transition length | For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the distance measured along the centre-line of the nozzle from the reference point to the small end of the taper, where the thickness of the reinforced part of the nozzle reduces to the basic nozzle neck thickness.  
Lower transition length | For [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>) nozzle type, the distance measured along the centre-line of the nozzle from the reference point to point where the thickness of the reinforced part of the nozzle starts to reduce.  
Outside corner radius | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle type, the corner radius between the nozzle and the insert plate at the outside surface.  
Inside corner radius | For [Butt welded insert](<h9993.htm#0505>) nozzle types, the corner radius at the inside surface between the nozzle internal projection and the shell.  
Corner radius | For all __ nozzle types, the corner radius at the inside surface.  
Fillet weld \(noz/shell\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the outside surface of the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/pad\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the external pad - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>)  
Groove weld \(noz/shell\) | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/shell\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the inside surface of the vessel - see [Plain nozzle](<h9993.htm#0501>), [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Self reinforced](<h9993.htm#0504>).  
Fillet weld \(noz/pad\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the nozzle and the internal pad - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
**PAD DATA**
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name. NOTE: This text will be the same as that entered on the previous input screen and need not be input again.  
---|---  
Material spec | Pad material selection from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>).  
Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Material | Material specification or description. If not using the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) option the following data will be required. | Cast component | Select _Yes_ for cast component - see [Cast Component](<h0298.htm#0700>).  
Longitudinal weld | Select weld type for the longitudinal seam weld - see [Welded Joints](<h0298.htm#0400>).  
Min tensile strength | The minimum tensile strength _R m_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 0.2_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: ATM \(1.0%\) | The specified minimum yield strength _R p 1.0_ for the material at room temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Min tensile strength: DT | The minimum tensile strength _R_ m/T for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT | The yield strength _R p 0.2/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Yield: DT \(1%\) | The yield strength _R p 1.0/T_ for the material at the design temperature - see [Yield strength and Tensile strength](<h0298.htm#0800>).  
Pad OD | Outside diameter of the reinforcing pad or pad type connection. NOTE: For _Nozzle + double pad_ the external and internal pads are assumed to have the same outside diameter.  
Pad ID | Inside diameter of a pad type connection.  
Pad thk | Thickness of the reinforcing pad or pad type connection. NOTE: For _Nozzle + double pad_ the external and internal pads are assumed to be the same thickness.  
External projection | The distance that the pad type connection projects from the outside surface of the vessel, measured from the reference point as defined in [Reference Point](<h9993.htm#0300>).  
Corner radius | For _Set-in_ or _Set-through_ [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>) type connection, the corner radius at the inside surface.  
Pad ID: int | For _Set-on_ or _Set-in_ nozzles with double pad, the inside diameter of the internal pad.  
Hole dia | For _Set-on_ pad type connections, the diameter of the opening in the vessel.  
Bolt hole dia | For pad type connections, the diameter of the bolt hole, used to calculate the bolt hole area to be removed. **NOTE:** This can be left as zero.  
Bolt hole depth | For pad type connections, the depth of the bolt hole, used to calculate the bolt hole area to be removed. **NOTE:** This can be left as zero.  
Bolt PCD | For pad type connections, the bolt circle diameter. **NOTE:** This can be left as zero.  
Fillet weld \(pad/shell\) | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the external pad and the outside surface of the vessel - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>), [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>) and [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>)  
Groove weld \(pad/shell\) | For [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>) connections, the thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the pad and the vessel.  
Fillet weld \(pad/shell\): int | The leg length of the cap or fillet weld between the pad and the inside surface of the vessel - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>) and [Pad](<h9993.htm#0506>).  
Groove weld \(noz/pad\) | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the external pad - see [Nozzle + single pad](<h9993.htm#0502>) and [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
Groove weld \(noz/pad\): int | The thickness of the partial penetration groove weld between the nozzle and the internal pad - see [Nozzle + double pad](<h9993.htm#0503>).  
## Calculation Output
Please note that the following is a complete list of output data for all types of nozzle reinforcement calculations. The data is listed generally in the sequence in which it appears on the screen and in the printed output, but there may be some variations to the order depending on the options currently selected. Only that data which is relevant to the particular type of calculation currently selected will be displayed or printed. Units are as indicated on the output. One consistent set of units will be used \(SI or US\).
**OUTPUT DATA**
For combined nozzles or openings, this data will be output for both nozzles.
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name.  
---|---  
Shell factor z | Weld joint coefficient of the shell material.  
Design pressure | Design internal pressure acting on the shell or head, including the effects of liquid static head.  
Ratio fb/fs | The ratio of the design strength for the nozzle _f_ b to the design strength for the vessel _f_ s, but not greater than 1.0.  
Ratio fp/fs | The ratio of the design strength for the reinforcing pad _f_ p to the design strength for the vessel _f_ s, but not greater than 1.0.  
Inside spherical radius | Corroded inside spherical radius of a Korbbogen head.  
Inside knuckle radius | Corroded inside knuckle radius of a Korbbogen head.  
Radius ris | The radius of curvature as defined in Clause 9.5.1.  
Half apex angle | Half the included apex angle of a conical shell, calculated by the program.  
Nozzle OD | Uncorroded outside diameter of the nozzle neck when _Nominal bore_ has been selected.  
Nozzle thk | New or as built thickness of the nozzle neck when _Schedule_ has been selected.  
Max nozzle thk | The maximum permitted nozzle thickness - see Clause 9.4.6.  
Diameter di | Corroded inside diameter of the nozzle.  
Ratio d/D | The ratio of the nozzle or opening diameter _d i_ to the diameter _D i_ of the shell, cone or the diameter _D o_ for the head.  
Allowable | The maximum allowable value of the ratio _d_ / _D_ in accordance with Clause 9.4.5.  
**REINFORCEMENT DATA**
For combined nozzles or openings, the following data will be output for both nozzles.
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name.  
---|---  
Nozzle factor z | Weld joint coefficient of the nozzle material.  
Pad factor z | Weld joint coefficient of the pad material.  
Avail thk eas | Analysis thickness of the shell, cone or head - see [Thickness definitions](<h9997.htm#0600>).  
Pres thk eps | Calculated minimum required thickness of the shell or cone, or the crown portion of a dished head, for internal pressure. NOTE: The program will only cater for nozzles in the crown portion of the head.  
Effective length: shell | Limit of reinforcement measured parallel to the vessel wall, determined in accordance with Clause 9.5.1.  
Effective length: nozzle | Limit of reinforcement measured parallel to the centre-line of the nozzle, determined in accordance with Clause 9.5.  
Effective length: internal | Limit of reinforcement measured parallel to the centre-line of the nozzle from the corroded inside surface of the shell, determined in accordance with Clause 9.5.  
Avail thk eab | Analysis thickness of the nozzle neck - see [Thickness definitions](<h9997.htm#0600>).  
Pres thk epb | Calculated minimum required thickness of the nozzle neck for internal pressure.  
Pressure area | The total pressure loaded area _A ps_+_A pb_+0.5 _A pφ_ as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Shell area | Shell cross-sectional material area _A fs_ as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Nozzle area | Nozzle cross-sectional material area _A fb_ as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Pad area | Pad cross-sectional material area _A fp_ to as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Weld area | Weld cross-sectional material area _A fw_ to as shown in Figures 9.4-1 to 9.4-13.  
Reinforcement | The relationship as shown in Clause 9.5.2.1, expressed as a percentage.  
**MATERIAL DATA**
The material properties of the shell, nozzle and pad material. Either from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>) or reproduced from the user input.
See [Material Properties](<h9980.htm>) for a complete list of properties used.
Opening ident | Nozzle or opening identification number or name.  
---|---  
Nozzle | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the nozzle.  
Pad | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the pad.  
Shell | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the shell.  
Cone | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the cone.  
Head | Heading to denote that the values following apply to the head.  
**COMBINED REINFORCEMENT DATA**
Long pitch PL | Distance between the centres of the two nozzles or openings measured along the surface of the shell in the longitudinal direction.  
---|---  
Circ pitch PT | Distance between the centres of the two nozzles or openings measured around the circumference of the shell.  
True pitch P | The true pitch between the centres of the two nozzles or openings.  
Pitch reqd to combine | The pitch required for a combined reinforcement calculation to be performed.  
Ligament length | The ligament between the two adjacent nozzles.  
Pressure area | The total pressure loaded area as shown in Figures 9.6-1 to 9.6-4.  
Shell area | Shell cross-sectional material area _A fs_ as shown in Figures 9.6-1 to 9.6-4.  
Nozzle area | Nozzle cross-sectional material area _A fb_ as shown in Figures 9.6-1 to 9.6-4.  
Pad area | Pad cross-sectional material area _A fp_ as shown in Figures 9.6-1 to 9.6-4.  
Reinforcement | The relationship as shown in Clause 9.6.3.1, expressed as a percentage.  
Overall check permitted | If set to Yes an overall check of adjacent nozzles per Clause 9.6.4 is permitted.  
Factor k | Factor used in the overall check of adjacent nozzles see Clause 9.6.4.  
Pressure area | The total pressure loaded area used in the overall check of adjacent nozzles as shown in Figures 9.6-5 and 9.6-6.  
Shell area | Shell cross-sectional material area _A fs_ as shown in Figures 9.6-5 and 9.6-6.  
Nozzle area | Nozzle cross-sectional material area _A fb_ as shown in Figures 9.6-5 and 9.6-6.  
Pad area | Pad cross-sectional material area _A fp_ as shown in Figures 9.6-5 and 9.6-6.  
Reinforcement | The relationship as shown in Clause 9.6.4 for the overall check of adjacent nozzles, expressed as a percentage.  
* * *
# System Messages
## Warning and Advisory Messages
Messages printed below in _italics_ are not considered to be critical - see [Warnings Messages](<h9997.htm#0501>).
_Acceptable calculation_ | The calculations have been performed successfully and the reinforcement is sufficient to satisfy the requirements.  
---|---  
Angle from normal | The angle between the axis of the nozzle and a line normal to the surface of the shell, cone or head, exceeds the limits specified in Clause 9.5.2.4.5. The program will show the effective increase in stress ratio caused by the nozzle being inclined from the normal - see [\[25\]](<h9998.htm#0025>).  
Code limitations exceeded | The nozzle is located outside of the edge limit _D e_/10.  
_Effective length: nozzle_ | For self reinforcing types the _Effective length: nozzle_ based on Code rules include nozzle thickness that is unable to contribute to the reinforcement. A lower limit generally per ASME VIII Div.1 FIG. UG-40 \(e-1\) has been used.  
_Effective length: shell_ | For butt welded types the pad thickness is not maintained over the permissible _Effective length: shell_. The _Effective length: shell_ is reduced to the available width as input.  
EN 13445-5 Table 6.6.1-1 | One or more of the parameters in the table _Testing groups for steel pressure vessels_ is outside the limits.  
Insufficient reinforcement | The reinforcement is insufficient to satisfy the requirements.  
Ligament length | The ligament length is smaller that the limit specified in Clause 9.6.1.  
_Location may reduce reinforcement_ | The _Relax reinforcement limits_ option is set to _Yes_ , but the area available for reinforcement in the vessel wall may be limited   
_Low temperature_ | Further analysis per EN 13445-2 Annex B may be required - see [Limitations](<h9996.htm#0700>).  
_Max nozzle thk_ | The limits in Figure 9.4-14 or 9.4-15 have been exceeded. If the limit in Figure 9.4-15 has been exceeded the maximum permitted thickness will be displayed. The program will discard excess thickness when calculating available reinforcement.  
_Max pad thk_ | The pad thickness exceeds the maximum permitted by the Code. The maximum permitted pad thickness is used in the calculation.  
_Openings do not combine_ | The distance between the centres of the two nozzles or openings is greater than the limit specified in Clause 9.5.1, so a combined reinforcement calculation is not required.  
Ratio d/D | The ratio _d_ / _D_ exceeds the limit specified in Clause 9.4.5.  
Ratio major v minor | The ratio of major to minor axes of the nozzle exceeds 2.0 - see Clause 9.4.4.  
_Reinforcement reduced by location_ | The _Relax reinforcement limits_ option is set to _No_ and the area available for reinforcement in the vessel wall has been limited - see [Limits of Reinforcement](<h9993.htm#0600>).  
Shop test condition | Further calculations are required for the shop test condition. NOTE: Although no output is produced for the test condition, the items of output which need investigation will be listed.  
_Strength weld_ | The strength of one or more of the attachment welds is insufficient to satisfy the requirements of ASME VIII Div.1, UG-41\(b\). NOTE: This is not a EN 13445 requirement.  
Thick shell theory reqd | Thin shell theory rules are not necessarily applicable - see [Shells & Heads](<h0298.htm#0100>).  
## Fatal Warning Messages
See [Fatal Messages](<h9997.htm#0502>).
Attachment | When analysing equal tees the _Attachment type_ must be _Set-on_.  
---|---  
Corroded failure | A component thickness is less than the corrosion allowance specified.  
Design temp | The minimum design temperature is 20° C - see Clause 5.3.7.  
Dia and/or thk invalid | A diameter and/or thickness is zero or the thickness exceeds the radius.  
Group No. | This group number is not supported by EN 13445.  
Input | An item of input data has not been entered.  
Inside head height | The inside head height is zero or greater than half the inside diameter.  
Inside knuckle radius | For a torispherical head the inside knuckle radius is zero or exceeds half the inside diameter.  
Inside spherical radius | For a torispherical head the inside spherical radius is less than half the inside diameter.  
Insufficient shell thk | The thickness, less thinning and corrosion allowances, is insufficient for the design pressure.  
Invalid data | A combination of input data is invalid or inconsistent.  
Large end | The large end diameter and/or thickness is zero or the thickness exceeds the radius.  
Material | There has been an error getting data from the [Material Database](<h9996.htm>), a more detailed explanation of this error will displayed on the Material Dialog box of the specific material.  
Method failure | Component dimensions are such that the calculation method has failed - see also [Fatal Messages](<h9997.htm#0502>).  
Insufficient thk | The thickness of the nozzle, less thinning and corrosion allowances, is insufficient for the design pressure.  
Oblique angle | An oblique angle greater than 80° has been input.  
Offset from centre | The edge of the nozzle or pad is outside the central 80% of an torispherical or ellipsoidal head.  
Opening or Nozzle | The dimensions of the nozzle or opening are such that the nozzle OD and/or ID exceeds the shell OD and/or ID  
Opening location | The bore of the nozzle or opening overlaps the end of the shell or cone, or extends beyond the inside diameter of the shell or cone.  
Orientation | An orientation greater than or equal to 360° has been input.  
Outside head height | The outside head height is zero or greater than half the outside diameter.  
Pad thk | The pad thickness is insufficient for the corrosion allowance specified; or the insert plate thickness is less than the shell thickness.  
Size welds | The _Size welds_ option has been set to _Yes_ and the corroded thickness of one or more of the fillet or groove welds is less than the minimum specified in ASME VIII Div.1, UW-16. The input data will be automatically updated with suitable values.  
Small end | The small end diameter and/or thickness is zero or the thickness exceeds the radius.  
Table values out of range | See Table 6.6.1.1.  
Thickness | A new or as built thickness is less than the sum of corrosion/tolerance allowances.  
Thinning /Tolerance | The thickness tolerance is greater than the new or as built thickness.  
* * *
©Finglow Research Ltd - 2024
